---
title: "(ICDE2013)Destination Prediction by Sub-trajectory Synthesis and Privacy Protection against Such Prediction"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/ICDE2013
excerpt: '
**Authors** : Andy Yuan Xue, Rui Zhang, Yu Zheng, Xing Xie, Jin Huang and **Zhenghua Xu***.


**Place** : Brisbane, Australia


**Date** : April 8-11, 2013
'
date: 2013-04-08
venue: 'The 29th IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE), (CCF Rank A, Acceptance rate: 19.8%, Number of citaions: 221)'

---
**Authors:** Andy Yuan Xue, Rui Zhang, Yu Zheng, Xing Xie, Jin Huang and **Zhenghua Xu***.  
**Abstract:** Destination prediction is an essential task for many
emerging location based applications such as recommending
sightseeing places and targeted advertising based on destination.
A common approach to destination prediction is to derive the
probability of a location being the destination based on historical
trajectories. However, existing techniques using this approach
suffer from the “data sparsity problem”, i.e., the available
historical trajectories is far from being able to cover all possible
trajectories. This problem considerably limits the number of
query trajectories that can obtain predicted destinations. We
propose a novel method named Sub-Trajectory Synthesis (SubSyn)
algorithm to address the data sparsity problem. SubSyn algorithm first decomposes historical trajectories into sub-trajectories
comprising two neighbouring locations, and then connects the
sub-trajectories into “synthesised” trajectories. The number of
query trajectories that can have predicted destinations is exponentially increased by this means. Experiments based on real
datasets show that SubSyn algorithm can predict destinations for
up to ten times more query trajectories than a baseline algorithm
while the SubSyn prediction algorithm runs over two orders of
magnitude faster than the baseline algorithm. In this paper, we
also consider the privacy protection issue in case an adversary
uses SubSyn algorithm to derive sensitive location information
of users. We propose an efficient algorithm to select a minimum
number of locations a user has to hide on her trajectory in
order to avoid privacy leak. Experiments also validate the high
efficiency of the privacy protection algorithm.

[[Download paper here]](http://zhx-hebut.github.io/files/ICDE2013.pdf)
